---
date:     2012-01-01 00:00:00 +0100
slug:     amundi
name:     Amundi
duration: janv. 2012 - juil. 2013, 1 year and 7 months
website:  https://legroupe.amundi.com
logo:     /assets/img/logos/amundi.jpg
twitter:  Amundi_ENG
tags:     [Java/JEE developer, Java, Struts2, jQuery, Bootstrap]
---

My past experiences were all a bit eccentric, so I decided to go more mainstream to become a real software engineer <i class="far fa-grin-beam-sweat"></i>

It took me 3 months to decide what I wanted to do and, as the world was going threw a massive crisis, I wanted to understand finance from the inside.
After a few months (whole departments were laid of at this time), I landed at **Amundi** (through **Nexeo**).
My team was transverse and worked for other tech teams (mainly ops). So, not much to see about finance
but I could discuss with people to know more and **Nexeo** being a finance centric SSII, I had a two day finance training and a (big) book.
So, in the end, I learned quite a lot about finance <i class="far fa-grin-hearts"></i>

I did several projects using **Java**, **Struts2**, **Oracle**, **Bootstrap** and **jQuery**,
such as monitoring and administrating network equipments, editing and deploying file transfer configurations or managing database access rights using a custom driver.

I worked under the guidance of **Antoine Body**, Amundi architect and go-to person for every technical problem,
who gave me a lot of autonomy alongside some close mentoring with code reviews.
I had a complete ownership on various projects: collect client needs, propose solutions then design, implement and deploy them.
Feedback loop was very small (about a day) and projects were a real success! This gave me a big ego boost, I got to be a real software engineer ^^

Some years later, Antoine told me that *the biggest project I worked on, worked like a charm, without any maintenance for some years.
And when they needed to do an evolution it was straightforward.* He could not do a biggest compliment to me.
This is exactly what I'm aiming for <i class="fas fa-rocket"></i>

On **Nexeo** side, I launched the "**pôle Java**" where I did several internal presentations to other consultants about Java and Web technologies.
I was also involved into recruiting and coaching consultants to help them find missions.
Pretty amazing opportunities to learn and meet interesting people.

At **Amundi**, I launched **TechLunch**, to share knowledge. I personally talked about **MongoDB** and **Neo4j** there and invited many BBLs to introduce new things.
                        
But one day, I discovered **Scala** <i class="fas fa-heart"></i> (thanks to **Play framework**) and, after some learning time, I decided to work with it.
As it was impossible at **Amundi**, I decided to do some freelancing. I took 6 months to learn it deeper and look into machine learning and recommender systems.
