---
date:     2015-11-01
name:     Sidexa
duration: nov. 2015 - feb. 2016, 4 months
website:  https://www.sidexa.fr
logo:     /assets/img/logos/sidexa.png
twitter:  SIDEXA_
tags:     [Mobile developer, Ionic framework, AngularJS, Freelance]
---

In recruitment, timing is everything. For this experience, it is very true as they called me just the day after we decided to kill [SalooN](#saloon).
A perfect timing to get some fresh cash! And honestly, if the situation were different, I would probably pass on this opportunity, but this would be a mistake.

The job did not make me dream: they do software for auto repairer and wanted to launch a mobile app to help diagnostics.
They hired a web agency but after 6 months of work (including 3 late), they decided to stop the contract and
call some freelances to finish the job (mostly debugging) and publish the app. So we had 3 months to put the app on the market.

They hired only 2 freelances instead of 3 (initially planned) and the other one did not succeeded much so they ended his contract after one week...
On my side, the first week was mainly digging into the worst spaghetti code I ever seen, with everything defined as global and most of the code being written
with bad Angular integration. So, on week two, I suggested to start over from scratch, alone. I thought I could make it to the current status in only three weeks,
and they agreed to give me a chance on that.
AND I MADE IT <i class="emoji party-popper"> </i><i class="emoji party-popper"></i> <i class="emoji party-popper"></i>

This finished to convince me that when you know what to do and you master your tools, you can easily be 10x more efficient than average projects.
Not only in the timing but also in quality. The trade-off we often see between quality and speed is very twisted, you can have both with *software craft*.

In the two following months, I added new features and developed a custom camera plugin. In the same time, I got to know better the company and the people.
I started to identify some structural malfunctions and tried to discuss about them to solve them. But with not much insistence as I'm just a 3 months contractor.
I didn't see many changes but seeds were sown.

On my last day, the director came to me because he heard that I had some ideas to improve the situation.
We discussed a lot about it and he asked me to stay more time to implement them. My next mission was already planned so I had only one month to do them. I accepted the challenge.
So my new mission was not anymore about coding but change management. A whole new world to discover. I took many advices from many coaches a did my best.
Things worked pretty well, even if the switch from coding was a bit strange for many people.
But everyone seems happy to see problems being addressed, to understand better the global situation and discover new horizons and methodologies.
One month is very short and I'm not sure things moved drastically but I did my best to find people wanting to continue it.

For me it's an awesome experience, and it's interesting to think it comes from somewhere I would not go normally...
